DESIGNATION OF PRODUCT IDENTITY

All artwork, logos, and presentation are product identity. The names “Necrotic
Gnome”, "VTT RED", and “Old-School Essentials” are product identity. All text
and tables not declared as Open Game Content are product identity.

DESIGNATION OF OPEN GAME CONTENT

All text and tables in the following sections are Open Game Content: Running
Adventures, Encounter Tables, NPC Encounters, Treasures, Sentient Swords.

All text and tables in the Monsters section are Open Game Content with the
exception of the game statistics and descriptions of the following monsters:
Amphisbaena; Banshee; Brownie; Catoblepas; Deep One; Demonic Knight; Dog,
Hunting Dog; Dog, War Dog; Dog, Wild Dog; Dragon, Multichromatic; Eye of Terror;
Fish, Giant, Electric Eel; Fish, Giant, Pike; Fish, Giant, Swordfish; Frog,
Giant, Mutant Frog; Frog, Giant, Poisonous Frog; Ghost; Gorilla; Gullygug;
Hippopotamus, Behemoth; Hippopotamus, Normal; Hook Beast; Hulker; Jellyfish,
Giant; Krell; Lamprey, Giant; Leprechaun; Leucrocotta; Lizard, Giant, Flame
Lizard; Lizard, Giant, Monitor Lizard; Lizard, Giant, Subterranean Lizard;
Malfyr; Mantid; Mantis, Giant; Mind Lasher; Mutoid; Mycelian; Peryton; Phoenix;
Poltergeist; Revenant; Satyr; Scorpionoid; Seahorse, Giant; Slug, Giant; Snake
Person; Spawn of the Worm; Sphinx; Spider, Giant, Aquatic; Titan; Toad, Giant,
Frost; Toad, Giant, Poisonous; Turtle, Giant, Sea Turtle; Turtle, Giant,
Snapping Turtle; Wasp, Giant; Water Fiend; Will-o'-the-Wisp; Yeti.

All text and tables in the Magic Items section are Open Game Content with the
exception of the game statistics and descriptions of the following magic items:
Alchemist's Beaker; Amulet of Protection Against Possession; Arrow of Location;
Bag of Transformation; Book of Foul Corruption; Book of Sublime Holiness; Chime
of Ravening; Cloak of Defence; Crossbow +1, Distance; Crossbow +1, Speed;
Crossbow +2, Accuracy; Dagger +1, Buckle; Dagger +1, Throwing; Dagger +1,
Venomous; Dagger +2, Biter; Drums of Thunder; Eyes of Minuscule Sight; Gem of
Monster Attraction; Gem of Pristine Faceting; Horn of Cave-Ins; Horn of
Frothing; Javelin of Seeking; Jug of Endless Liquids; Libram of Arcane Power;
Mace +1, Disrupting; Net of Snaring; Oil of Insubstantiality; Oil of
Slipperiness; Pearl of Wisdom; Phylactery of Betrayal; Phylactery of Longevity;
Purse of Plentiful Coin; Rod of Captivation; Rod of Parrying; Rod of
Resurrection; Rod of Striking; Rope of Strangulation; Rug of Suffocation; Saw of
Felling; Scarab of Chaos; Scarab of Rage; Short Sword +2, Quickness; Sling
Bullet +1, Impact; Spade of Mighty Digging; Staff +1, Growing; Staff of
Dispelling; Staff of the Healer; Sweet Water; Sword –1, Berserker (Cursed);
Sword +1, Dragon Slayer; Sword +1, Giant Slayer; Sword +1, Sharpness; Sword +1,
Wounding; Sword +2, Dancing; Sword +2, Venger; Sword +3, Defender; Trident –2,
Yearning (Cursed); Trident +1, Submission; Wand of Magic Missiles; Wand of
Radiance; Wand of Summoning; War Hammer +3, Thunderbolts.

OPEN GAME LICENSE Version 1.0a

The following text is the property of Wizards of the Coast, Inc. and is
Copyright 2000 Wizards of the Coast, Inc (“Wizards”). All Rights Reserved.

1. Definitions: (a)”Contributors” means the copyright and/or trademark owners
who have contributed Open Game Content; (b)”Derivative Material” means
copyrighted material including derivative works and translations (including into
other computer languages), potation, modification, correction, addition,
extension, upgrade, improvement, compilation, abridgment or other form in which
an existing work may be recast, transformed or adapted; (c) “Distribute” means
to reproduce, license, rent, lease, sell, broadcast, publicly display, transmit
or otherwise distribute; (d)”Open Game Content” means the game mechanic and
includes the methods, procedures, processes and routines to the extent such
content does not embody the Product Identity and is an enhancement over the
prior art and any additional content clearly identified as Open Game Content by
the Contributor, and means any work covered by this License, including
translations and derivative works under copyright law, but specifically excludes
Product Identity. (e) “Product Identity” means product and product line names,
logos and identifying marks including trade dress; artifacts; creatures
characters; stories, storylines, plots, thematic elements, dialogue, incidents,
language, artwork, symbols, designs, depictions, likenesses, formats, poses,
concepts, themes and graphic, photographic and other visual or audio
representations; names and descriptions of characters, spells, enchantments,
personalities, teams, personas, likenesses and special abilities; places,
locations, environments, creatures, equipment, magical or supernatural abilities
or effects, logos, symbols, or graphic designs; and any other trademark or
registered trademark clearly identified as Product identity by the owner of the
Product Identity, and which specifically excludes the Open Game Content; (f)
“Trademark” means the logos, names, mark, sign, motto, designs that are used by
a Contributor to identify itself or its products or the associated products
contributed to the Open Game License by the Contributor (g) “Use”, “Used” or
“Using” means to use, Distribute, copy, edit, format, modify, translate and
otherwise create Derivative Material of Open Game Content. (h) “You” or “Your”
means the licensee in terms of this agreement.

2. The License: This License applies to any Open Game Content that contains a
notice indicating that the Open Game Content may only be Used under and in terms
of this License. You must affix such a notice to any Open Game Content that you
Use. No terms may be added to or subtracted from this License except as
described by the License itself. No other terms or conditions may be applied to
any Open Game Content distributed using this License.

3.Offer and Acceptance: By Using the Open Game Content You indicate Your
acceptance of the terms of this License.

4. Grant and Consideration: In consideration for agreeing to use this License,
the Contributors grant You a perpetual, worldwide, royalty- free, non-exclusive
license with the exact terms of this License to Use, the Open Game Content.

5.Representation of Authority to Contribute: If You are contributing original
material as Open Game Content, You represent that Your Contributions are Your
original creation and/or You have sufficient rights to grant the rights conveyed
by this License.

6.Notice of License Copyright: You must update the COPYRIGHT NOTICE portion of
this License to include the exact text of the COPYRIGHT NOTICE of any Open Game
Content You are copying, modifying or distributing, and You must add the title,
the copyright date, and the copyright holder’s name to the COPYRIGHT NOTICE of
any original Open Game Content you Distribute.

7. Use of Product Identity: You agree not to Use any Product Identity, including
as an indication as to compatibility, except as expressly licensed in another,
independent Agreement with the owner of each element of that Product Identity.
You agree not to indicate compatibility or co-adaptability with any Trademark or
Registered Trademark in conjunction with a work containing Open Game Content
except as expressly licensed in another, independent Agreement with the owner of
such Trademark or Registered Trademark. The use of any Product Identity in Open
Game Content does not constitute a challenge to the ownership of that Product
Identity. The owner of any Product Identity used in Open Game Content shall
retain all rights, title and interest in and to that Product Identity.

8. Identification: If you distribute Open Game Content You must clearly indicate
which portions of the work that you are distributing are Open Game Content.

9. Updating the License: Wizards or its designated Agents may publish updated
versions of this License. You may use any authorized version of this License to
copy, modify and distribute any Open Game Content originally distributed under
any version of this License.

10 Copy of this License: You MUST include a copy of this License with every copy
of the Open Game Content You Distribute.

11. Use of Contributor Credits: You may not market or advertise the Open Game
Content using the name of any Contributor unless You have written permission
from the Contributor to do so.

12 Inability to Comply: If it is impossible for You to comply with any of the
terms of this License with respect to some or all of the Open Game Content due
to statute, judicial order, or governmental regulation then You may not Use any
Open Game Material so affected.

13 Termination: This License will terminate automatically if You fail to comply
with all terms herein and fail to cure such breach within 30 days of becoming
aware of the breach. All sublicenses shall survive the termination of this
License.

14 Reformation: If any provision of this License is held to be unenforceable,
such provision shall be reformed only to the extent necessary to make it
enforceable.

15 COPYRIGHT NOTICE

Open Game License v 1.0 © 2000, Wizards of the Coast, Inc.

System Reference Document © 2000, Wizards of the Coast, Inc.; Authors Jonathan
Tweet, Monte Cook, Skip Williams, based on original material by E. Gary Gygax
and Dave Arneson.

System Reference Document © 2000-2003, Wizards of the Coast, Inc.; Authors
Jonathan Tweet, Monte Cook, Skip Williams, Rich Baker, Andy Collins, David
Noonan, Rich Redman, Bruce R. Cordell, John D. Rateliff, Thomas Reid, James
Wyatt, based on original material by E. Gary Gygax and Dave Arneson.

Modern System Reference Document © 2002-2004, Wizards of the Coast, Inc.;
Authors Bill Slavicsek, Jeff Grubb, Rich Redman, Charles Ryan, Eric Cagle, David
Noonan, Stan!, Christopher Perkins, Rodney Thompson, and JD Wiker, based on
material by Jonathan Tweet, Monte Cook, Skip Williams, Richard Baker, Peter
Adkison, Bruce R. Cordell, John Tynes, Andy Collins, and JD Wiker.

Castles & Crusades: Players Handbook, Copyright 2004, Troll Lord Games; Authors
Davis Chenault and Mac Golden.

Cave Cricket from the Tome of Horrors, copyright 2002, Necromancer Games, Inc.;
Authors Scott Greene and Clark Peterson, based on original material by Gary
Gygax.

Crab, Monstrous from the Tome of Horrors, copyright 2002, Necromancer Games,
Inc.; Author Scott Greene, based on original material by Gary Gygax.

Fly, Giant from the Tome of Horrors, copyright 2002, Necromancer Games, Inc.;
Author Scott Greene, based on original material by Gary Gygax.

Golem, Wood from the Tome of Horrors, copyright 2002, Necromancer Games, Inc.;
Authors Scott Greene and Patrick Lawinger.

Kamadan from the Tome of Horrors, copyright 2002, Necromancer Games, Inc.;
Author Scott Greene, based on original material by Nick Louth.

Rot Grub from the Tome of Horrors, Copyright 2002, Necromancer Games, Inc.;
Authors Scott Greene and Clark Peterson, based on original material by Gary
Gygax

Labyrinth LordTM Copyright 2007-2009, Daniel Proctor. Author Daniel Proctor.

Darwin’s World Copyright 2002, RPGObjects; Authors Dominic Covey and Chris
Davis.

Mutant FutureTM Copyright 2008, Daniel Proctor and Ryan Denison. Authors Daniel
Proctor and Ryan Denison.

Aerial Servant from the Tome of Horrors, copyright 2002, Necromancer Games,
Inc.; authors Scott Greene and Clark Peterson, based on original material by
Gary Gygax.

Axe Beak from the Tome of Horrors, copyright 2002, Necromancer Games, Inc.;
author Scott Greene, based on original material by Gary Gygax.

Beetle, Giant Boring from the Tome of Horrors, copyright 2002, Necromancer
Games, Inc.; author Scott Greene, based on original material by Gary Gygax.

Beetle, Giant Rhinoceros from the Tome of Horrors, copyright 2002, Necromancer
Games, Inc.; author Scott Greene, based on original material by Gary Gygax.

Brownie from the Tome of Horrors, copyright 2002, Necromancer Games, Inc.;
author Scott Greene, based on original material by Gary Gygax. Crayfish,
Monstrous from the Tome of Horrors, copyright 2002, Necromancer Games, Inc.;
author Scott Greene, based on original material by Gary Gygax.

Demon: Juiblex “The Faceless Lord” (Demon Lord) from the Tome of Horrors,
copyright 2002, Necromancer Games, Inc.; author Scott Greene, based on original
material by Gary Gygax.

Demon: Orcus (Demon Prince of Undead) from the Tome of Horrors, copyright 2002,
Necromancer Games, Inc.; authors Scott Greene and Clark Peterson, based on
original material by Gary Gygax.

Devil: Amon (Duke of Hell) from the Tome of Horrors, copyright 2002, Necromancer
Games, Inc.; author Scott Greene, based on original material by Gary Gygax.

Devil: Bael (Duke of Hell) from the Tome of Horrors, copyright 2002, Necromancer
Games, Inc.; author Scott Greene, based on original material by Gary Gygax.

Devil: Geryon (Arch-Devil) from the Tome of Horrors, copyright 2002, Necromancer
Games, Inc.; author Scott Greene, based on original material by Gary Gygax.

Ear Seeker from the Tome of Horrors, copyright 2002, Necromancer Games, Inc.;
authors Scott Greene and Erica Balsley, based on original material by Gary
Gygax.

Eel, Electric from the Tome of Horrors, copyright 2002, Necromancer Games, Inc.;
author Scott Greene.

Eye of the Deep from the Tome of Horrors, copyright 2002, Necromancer Games,
Inc.; author Scott Greene, based on original material by Gary Gygax.

Floating Eye from the Tome of Horrors, copyright 2002, Necromancer Games, Inc.;
author Scott Greene, based on original material by Gary Gygax.

Frog, Monstrous from the Tome of Horrors, copyright 2002, Necromancer Games,
Inc.; authors Scott Greene and Clark Peterson, based on original material by
Gary Gygax.

Frog, Monstrous Killer from the Tome of Horrors, copyright 2002, Necromancer
Games, Inc.; authors Scott Greene and Clark Peterson, based on original material
by Gary Gygax.

Frog, Monstrous Poisonous from the Tome of Horrors, copyright 2002, Necromancer
Games, Inc.; authors Scott Greene and Clark Peterson, based on original material
by Gary Gygax.

Gas Spore from the Tome of Horrors, copyright 2002, Necromancer Games, Inc.;
authors Scott Greene and Clark Peterson, based on original material by Gary
Gygax.

Gorbel from the Tome of Horrors, copyright 2002, Necromancer Games, Inc.; author
Scott Greene, based on original material by Andrew Key. Groaning Spirit from the
Tome of Horrors, copyright 2002, Necromancer Games, Inc.; authors Scott Greene
and Clark Peterson, based on original material by Gary Gygax.

Hippocampus from the Tome of Horrors, copyright 2002, Necromancer Games, Inc.;
authors Scott Greene and Erica Balsley, based on original material by Gary
Gygax.

Jackalwere from the Tome of Horrors, copyright 2002, Necromancer Games, Inc.;
author Scott Greene based, on original material by Gary Gygax.

Leprechaun from the Tome of Horrors, copyright 2002, Necromancer Games, Inc.;
author Scott Greene based on original material by Gary Gygax.

Lurker Above from the Tome of Horrors, copyright 2002, Necromancer Games, Inc.;
author Scott Greene, based on original material by Gary Gygax.

Piercer from the Tome of Horrors, copyright 2002, Necromancer Games, Inc.;
authors Scott Greene and Clark Peterson, based on original material by Gary
Gygax.

Slithering Tracker from the Tome of Horrors, copyright 2002, Necromancer Games,
Inc.; author Scott Greene, based on original material by Gary Gygax,

Slug, Giant from the Tome of Horrors, copyright 2002, Necromancer Games, Inc.;
author Scott Greene, based on original material by Gary Gygax.

Strangle Weed from the Tome of Horrors, copyright 2002, Necromancer Games, Inc.;
author Scott Greene, based on original material by Gary Gygax.

Tick, Giant from the Tome of Horrors, copyright 2002, Necromancer Games, Inc.;
author Scott Greene, based on original material by Gary Gygax.

Trapper from the Tome of Horrors, copyright 2002, Necromancer Games, Inc.;
author Scott Greene, based on original material by Gary Gygax, Turtle, Giant
Snapping from the Tome of Horrors, copyright 2002, Necromancer Games, Inc.;
author Scott Green, based on original material by Gary Gygax.

Wind Walker from the Tome of Horrors, copyright 2002, Necromancer Games, Inc.;
author Scott Greene, based on original material by Gary Gygax,

Yeti from the Tome of Horrors, copyright 2002, Necromancer Games, Inc.; author
Scott Green, based on original material by Gary Gygax.

Advanced Edition Companion, Copyright 2009-2010, Daniel Proctor. Author Daniel
Proctor.

B/X Essentials: Core Rules © 2017 Gavin Norman. Author Gavin Norman.

B/X Essentials: Classes and Equipment © 2017 Gavin Norman. Author Gavin Norman.

B/X Essentials: Cleric and Magic-User Spells © 2017 Gavin Norman. Author Gavin
Norman.

B/X Essentials: Monsters © 2017 Gavin Norman. Author Gavin Norman.

B/X Essentials: Adventures and Treasures © 2018 Gavin Norman. Author Gavin
Norman.

Old-School Essentials Core Rules © 2018 Gavin Norman.

Old-School Essentials Classic Fantasy: Genre Rules © 2018 Gavin Norman.

Old-School Essentials Classic Fantasy: Cleric and Magic-User Spells © 2018 Gavin
Norman.

Old-School Essentials Classic Fantasy: Monsters © 2018 Gavin Norman.

Old-School Essentials Classic Fantasy: Treasures © 2018 Gavin Norman. 

Old-School Essentials Advanced Fantasy: Druid and Illusionist Spells © 2018
Gavin Norman.

Old-School Essentials Advanced Fantasy: Genre Rules © 2018 Gavin Norman.

Old-School Essentials Classic Fantasy: Rules Tome © 2019 Gavin Norman.

Old-School Essentials Advanced Fantasy: Player's Tome © 2020 Gavin Norman.

Old-School Essentials Advanced Fantasy: Monsters © 2020 Gavin Norman.

Old-School Essentials Advanced Fantasy: Treasures © 2020 Gavin Norman.

Old-School Essentials Advanced Fantasy: Referee's Tome © 2020 Gavin Norman.

Old-School Essentials Advanced Fantasy for Foundry VTT © 2023 Gavin Norman.

END OF LICENSE
